---
sidebar_position: 5
title: Best Practices
---

## Best Practices

Before starting app development, it is very important that you **carefully read the API documentation** to ensure solid implementation. <br/>
Below, we've prepared a **best practices guide** to help ensure that, by the time you submit your app for approval, these guidelines are being followed to ensure **technical quality and usability**.<br/><br/>

* **Use pagination** <br/>
    This is highly important, especially for merchants who have a large amount of data returned in requests. <br/>
    We recommend reading the <a href="https://tiendanube.github.io/api-documentation/intro#pagination" target="_blank">Pagination</a> documentation.

* **The User-Agent header must contain the app name and email address.**<br/> This ensures security and clarity in the logs generated by your application. <br/>
    We recommend reading the <a href="https://tiendanube.github.io/api-documentation/intro#identify-your-app" target="_blank">Identify your app</a> documentation.

* **Use webhooks to manage request volume appropriately**<br/>
    Avoid making multiple requests for the same operation within a short time window.<br/>
    For example, if your app needs to access the products and/or orders endpoint, it is recommended to use the webhook for newly created and notified products, so that requests to the API occur only when triggered by an actual event — this prevents repetitive requests when no data has changed in the merchant's account.

* **Ensure use of the necessary scopes and permissions**<br/>
    It’s important that the diagram you submit with the scopes required by your app matches what merchants will need to “accept” in order to use it. <br/>
    You should also ensure that scope usage is intentional and includes only what is necessary for your app to function.

* **The app’s language must align with the geographies selected for publishing.**

* **Pay attention to the request rate limit**<br/>
    The API implements a rate limit to control traffic and maintain service stability. By default, this limit allows 2 requests per second. That means if you send 20 requests simultaneously, they’ll be processed within this limit and will take approximately 10 seconds to complete.<br/>
    It's important to note that this limit applies per merchant and application making requests. However, if the merchant is on the Next plan, the base limit is multiplied by 10, allowing a higher volume of requests.<br/>
    The response will include headers that indicate the available and used limit:
    * `x-rate-limit-limit`: indicates the maximum limit.
    * `x-rate-limit-remaining`: how many requests remain before hitting the limit.
    * `x-rate-limit-reset`: how long (in milliseconds) until the limit resets.<br/>
    We recommend reading the <a href="https://tiendanube.github.io/api-documentation/intro#rate-limiting" target="_blank">Rate Limit</a> documentation.
